# DTSC3601_PredictingLocationOfMassShootings

## Introduction

Mass shootings are a part of the larger issue of gun violence in the United States. With almost 700 mass shooting events in 2021(Gun violence archive), The United States has by far more mass shooting events than any other wealthy and developed nation. Being able to predict and identify traits in the individuals who perpetrate these acts would assist us in identifying locations that are more at risk. Our research question is: What mental health events, if any, in the last 6 months can be used to predict the location or severity of a mass shooting? A variety of variables are available however we intend to isolate and utilize histrionic mental health treatment as well as any recent treatment received six months prior to the occurrence of the incident. Additionally, we will consider whether or not the treatment was voluntary or involuntary.  Once these values are isolated we will attempt to combine this data against certain leakage and location variables, in particular if someone in a position of authority or responsibility was aware of the instability in the shooter’s life so that we can better predict the locations in which mass shooting events may occur. Mass shootings are different from many other types of crimes because they are typically premeditated events that are planned for weeks or months in advance. This difference in time can give police and mental health officials more opportunity for successful prevention. Creating a model that can reliably predict human behavior and know what an individual will do in a given situation may be impossible. However we may be able to identify key warning signs among predisposed individuals. This information can then be used to educate public and mental health professionals and increase their ability to intervene or reach out for help.
